\About
\DScrabble

\cThis application is developed using the Concurrent Clean System, 
\ca programming environment for the functional programming 
\clanguage Concurrent Clean. This system is developed by the 
\cresearch group Parallel Systems and Computational Models at the
\cUniversity of Nijmegen.

\cOriginal program written by Paul de Mast in the functional 
\cprogramming language Amanda.
\cConverted to Clean by the above mentioned research group.

\dThe Concurrent Clean System is freelyavailable via FTP for 
\dMacintoshes, Suns, and PCs (OS/2, Windows95)
\d(see ftp.cs.kun.nl and http://www.cs.kun.nl/~clean/).
\EndAbout

\Help
\DScrabble Help

This game can be played by two persons, or versus the computer, or
the computer versus itself. Players take turns to place words on the 
board. The letters that make up new words are provided by the program
and those that are already on the board. The first word needs one of its 
letters to be placed in the center of the board. Words can be placed across 
or down only. Except for the first word all new words need to adjoin the
current words that are on the board. 

To allow the computer to play and to determine the correctness of words 
the program is equipped with a (limited) dictionary. If you intend to place 
new words on the board that do not occur in the dictionary the program 
will ask you to verify the correctness of the word. If confirmed, the new 
words will be added to the dictionary and the game continues with the next
player. If cancelled, no words are added and you need to think of something
new. 

If you want to place a word on the board you need to click on the board on the
square where the word should start (this square is hilited from the other
squares). You should fill in the text field after the label "Player Word" with 
the full word. Furthermore you should select the direction in which the new
word should be placed on the board (either the "Horizontal" or "Vertical"
alternative of "Direction"). The word will be placed on the board when the
"Place Word" button has been pressed.  

If you are not content with your current set of available letters you can trade 
them all by clearing the text field after the label "Player Word". The program
will then provide you with a new set of letters, but note that your turn is over.

The set of available letters is displayed at the left of the game window. 

The game is over as soon as there are no more letters available and both players
can't think of any new words. You can ofcourse always start a new game during
a match. 

When quitting the program it is checked if any new words have been added to the
dictionary. If this is the case the program will ask you if you want to save them
to the dictionary in order to memorise them. If confirmed they will be added to
the dictionary, if cancelled they are not. If no words were added then the program
simply quits quietly.

\bCustomising scrabble
The source code of this program has been set up to be customised to language and
platform. The language and platform independent code is formed by the following
modules:

scrabble.icl (the main module)
board.(d/i)cl
graphics.(d/i)cl
state.(d/i)cl
types.(d/i)cl

The platform dependent code can be found in the module systemsettings.(d/i)cl.
The language dependent code is formed by the module language.(d/i)cl which contains
the name of the appropriate dictionary file and the help file that you are now
reading. 

The scrabble project needs to locate these files. Set up the appropriate paths locating
the platform and language dependent modules and recompile the scrabble program.
\EndHelp